I want to talk about I I want to talk about the Siri So we're about to go into into a lot of theory so I want you to really really drill down my logic because I want to see the loopholes. So I'm in the mode of problem solving and also critique. So problem hunting and critique because I want to make sure my ideas are completely, like, I want to prove the ideas are true. We're using mathematical tools, like proved by contradiction or others, and maybe you can identify those so you can help me. So we're just using logic, okay? So nothing else. Because that's the basis upon which everything is built. So mathematical logic.. Regression. regression is a problem, right? And then it's a problem why? In the context of epidemology and health. Why is regression a problem? So we're going to have a discussion on it, and saying, why we need mechanism. So regression and the idea is that I think all of epidemiology has a regression. I'm not sure if I am the first to employ mechanism or if a mechanism has already been employed. I'd like, you know, we just keep asking these questions so they keep coming out so we can have an argument about this stuff. So essentially, it is problem hunting, so it is argumentation for the sake of problem solving, because we don't care. We just want solutions, okay? So regression is a problem. Everyone is doing regression in EP. So I don't know. There's. What are the, like. The things you cannot argue with, right? Because in Epi, they use generalized linear models, some fancy, you know, it doesn't matter what they use. Is it true that everything is just regression, you know, in epidemiology? Why is that fundamentally a problem? Why is nobody speaking up against it? Or has anybody spoken up against it? I mean, now we're getting into the role of empiricism. So maybe we should just go deep into theory and just leave everything. So regression at its core is problematic because it gives the wrong ideas, doesn't it? So what's the point of regression? Well, duelling associations that are being very careful in scientists are not making causal links And we want solutions. So advocating for the use of math in EP, I imagine is important, but then this is where I have many, many holes in my knowledge because I don't know if math is already employed in EP. Maybe ours ratios or whatever I think epidemiology is starving for laws, isn't it? So maybe starting from the very, very basics. Like, you know, what is epidemiology? What is a reggression? What is, yeah, and why are we not employing mathematical tools? Like, for example, differential equations? Because all of EP is just the flow problem. Isn't it? So. I wonder if that has already been employed or am I just talking into the void? Because we don't know. I mean, is there a point at which I have to go into literature? Because, like I said, I really don't like going into literature because all their problems are just associations and regression and it seems like it. I don't know. I still haven't looked into literature that much. That's why I'm saying I feel like I'm speaking a little bit to myself because I want to get to a point where I don't need it to look into literature to know if I'm deluded. You know what I mean? Like, is it true that you can come to a point at which you can just use logic to do everything rather than actually looking at papers and getting into the drudgery of graphs and things like that? Because I don't care. You see, like I'm I'm looking at, I feel like I see the same patterns, is that everything is just associations. And it doesn't seem like there's a lot of theory in epidemology. So if there is theory, what are they? And if so, they are just using computers. Like they're using software, like R, like data and everything. But it doesn't seem like we're doing much, you know? For example, think of extreme events. Think of regression in extreme events. Regression is fundamentally problematic for what? Well, obviously for extreme events, right? Because regression assumes. systems are nice and systems are linear and systems that are elastic, right? But then we can fundamentally prove that reality is not elastic. It is exactly like, you know, there's a breaking point or I don't know what they call it. But logically, that makes sense. I mean, in every society, there is.. I mean, mathematically, it can be proven, I think. That is the collapse of systems, right? Like, I don't know if it already has been, like, for example, this is where I don't know. So we're trying to simultaneously cover our gaps, but also we're just using logic. Like, assuming it doesn't exist, right? Assuming this stuff doesn't exist, we're just using logic to go from first principles and building up to it. So, and then we have to make sure we verify our logic. So I'm not sure how to verify. How do I independently verify my logic? I don't know. That's why I'm trying touce like that and then deduce it because I don't want to induce it. Like induction is bad, right? I don't want to use observation. So regression is bad for extreme events. I feel like that is maybe an axiom. Or is that just truth? You know what I mean? Like, I don't know how to build a logical argument, to be honest. This is where I'm trying to also think, because knowing how to build a logical argument is one of the most useful weapons in this universe, if you're able to build a logical argument and able to prove it and able to like, like it's I think the best logical argument is probably proved by contradiction. Or, I don't know. I don't know, right? Like, see, in logic, there must be ways. Maybe there are simple ways to just say, okay, this is the truth, right? But I know math is truth. He doesn't care about your feelings. Obviously, if math has done right. Because you're telling me if math is wrong, then geometry is truth. Okay, great. So maybe we can just focus on the geometry of structures. So maybe we can just pivot to complete geometry. and just say, okay, what is truth in geometry? And maybe we can build our arguments there. So maybe we can just talk in shapes instead of, maybe that's that's it. Maybe we can just escape this world and just use geometry to explain everything. How about that? Yeah, let's do that. So regression is just a line, and a line is trying to fit as many points as possible, but obviously, this is, you know, like, if there's a point that's a little bit too far, then it's going to to screw the whole line. I mean, at its core, that's all of epidemology. They're just doing outliers. Outlar just points that are far away. So we can just pivot pivot to complete geometry, to talk about logic. I feel like that's the best thing here, even though we can use sophisticated lingo in terms and things like that, I feel like what remains true is shapes in twoD gometry and things like that. So or topology. Let's actually also practice topology because it's very important. I feel like the highest value thing we could probably be doing, instead of maybe hunting for problems, we can just.. geometrically see systems and then weave truth from that as opposed to trying to find problems. Because everything is a geometry problem, literally. So maybe we can just pivot the geometry completely. Systems, I have suspicion that they're.. I mean, all systems must hit singularities, I feel like. I mean, I don't know if it's all systems, but. are there systems that have to hit singularities or are inevitable to run into singularities? For example, think of a black hole, right? A black hole is a singularity. And a singularity is a mathemical mathematically defined as an asymote. But see, now I'm thinking of jargon and things. So pivoting to just shapes and geometry, we can, like I said, prove everything. So we keep hearing of the tipping point and tipping point and tipping point, but nobody actually took the time. Well, see, now that's induction. We don't know. But a tipping point is what? A tipping point is like geometrically, probably a break in the shape of the universe. Like, maybe, yeah, that's what I said I want to pivot to topology. Because, you know what? That's the best route. So we can switch to complete topology and just imagining structures and then mapping them into structure and logic and things like that. So geometry, geometry and logic. So, visualizing a breaking point that's maybe a manifold, so a curve that just stretches too much, but we're saying instead of gravity being like a curve, we're saying systems sort of follow a curve that reaches a point where the curve stretches so much that it just snaps. And I think that's a rule, that fundamentally how can you verify? Like I see now I'm crazy that's insanity, right? How can you verify that's true? Maybe break it, Bre Maybe we can try to squish this stuffology or open it and close it or something, to try and see if that's actually be true. Because like think of even planets. They have to sit on a curve, right? But then how do we know that curve just doesn't snap suddenly? You know what I mean? That curve must snap. Has it already been talked about? You know what I mean? I'm trying to come up with a way I can actually see this stuff and actually prove it. So I don't even want calculus to prove it. I just want to know that it's, you know, I just want to see it in my head as a structure that just snaps. It must. Unless, I mean, what's the conditions under which it will snap, you know? And obviously not all systems are stable. Are they, you know? Because if there are extreme events, which are inevitable, like black swans, right? So we can actually quantify this black swan. Like the inevitability of a black black swan, I think, if not already quantified. But I don't I don't care about the calculus. Like I said, I just want to imagine it. So Iax 1 is inevitable. Sure. What does that look like in a shape? I don't know. It comes and no, but a black one is sudden. I'm talking about the slow stretching of the fabric of curve reaching a point until which it is stretched so much, it has to break It has to right? Oh, I don't know what I'm talking about. Why does it have to break? Isn't that the assumption that lines are just elastic? That's wrong. Isn't it? Just using logical intuition. Think about it. Can that curve actually stretch to infinity? Do you see what I'm seeing? Has it already been been discovered? I don't know maybe I don't think so. It doesn't doesn't seem to me like a lot of people are topological like this. But just think of it, right? Like maybe I should think of it. Like I should come up with the answer myself. You know, verifying it topologically means the math doesn't even matter anymore. It doesn't even matter. If in topology, in intuition, it is true, then it has to be the case. It has no choice. There is no way if it's not a trap door. There's no way. I mean, unless there is. Obviously, I don't know. There are conditions under which that trap door. I don't know. I think the happiest thought I've ever had is thinking in topology. I'm going to switch completely to it, but the thing is, like I said, I just want to make that loophole a little tight in my head just to think, okay, like, how do you verify you're not insane into apology? Maybe that's the best type of practice we should be focussing on. I was thinking it's either shopping for problems, quote unquote, but instead, I think it's actually infinitely more valuable to just visualize and apply the visualizationations to everything rather than they', like I said, so thinking in topology rather than ang geometry rather than math and calculus. Calculus and math is just a simple language. once the apology is verified. Like, it stops being a point where language actually makes sense. It doesn't, like language can't even describe it anymore. I mean, it can, kind of. Who thought sitting down and actually thinking can actually change the world? It can. potentially. That's what I said, like, I don't want to take this idea far prior to actually proving it. proving I'm not just deluded. You know? It doesn't have to be just an ev demology. I mean, just regression in general, software, everything in general, they just try to fit Kir. Why is that a problem? Obviously, it's not going to work for extreme events. And he cannot do it. It's not even a theory anymore. is it? Unless the curve, if I held the ball in my hands, and I'm standing on the lie. So everything. So let's maybe we can go back a little bit and we can assume. I don't know if it's an assumption, but everything is just a straight line. We're standing on a stand on a floor and I'm standing on the floor and, you know, you make a little bend. You throw a bowling bowl in the middle, you make a little bend, and you put another one, and you put another one, and you put another one, and you put another one. It's going to keep bending, sure, but. I mean, you're assuming equilibrium, right? So there must be a factor where there's so much squish that it just breaks. Car I lose sleep over this stuff There must be a way also to show it to someone like okay, with calculus, we can probably determine the asymote, which is truth, like it doesn't matter.. So we can show it, but the calculus doesn't mean anything. If I can't actually ensure that singularity is existing. I have to make sure of it. And if it is true, it's like, I have to I have to tell someone. Like, I have to get it out there. Probably with. I don't know, I have to get it out there. But you know what I mean? That's like they're practising the the build up to it. It must. It must be right. It must be rigourous, and I must be able to do it on a napkin on one piece of paper. Very simply. Like yeah, like jumping up. I feel like jumping up right now because of how exciting this thought is, but like I said, you have to make sure you're not insane. How how do I know? I'm not completely bollocks like I'm seeking disroval. I'm not seeking validation. Just from first principles. Maybe he'll sketching it like you can you can you can see it can't you Maybe sketching it you can see that inevitability of it Like if Einstein said space is, I mean, space time is curved, sure. Then the black hole is explained by the breaking of that curvature. Isn't it? 
