1-THE CASE
FOR ADAPTING
TO EXTREME HEAT
Costs of the 2021 B.C. heat wave

Based on the document provided, here is a detailed overview of "The Case for Adapting to Extreme Heat: Costs of the 2021 B.C. Heat Wave" (June 2023), published by the Canadian Climate Institute.

All text below consists of direct quotes, data points, and verbatim evidence found within the report.

Executive Overview

The Core Premise:
"British Columbia’s June 2021 heat wave was the deadliest disaster in provincial history, and when the costs of the 619 lives lost from heat exposure are included, it was also one of the most costly."

The Climate Reality:
"Climate models indicate that sustained temperatures similar to the 2021 heat wave have a 10 per cent chance of reoccurring in B.C. within the next two decades." Furthermore, "climate change made the 2021 heat wave at least 150 times more likely to occur."

The 2021 Event: Timeline and Statistics

Between June 25 and June 30, B.C. experienced "sustained record temperatures."

Lytton, B.C.: Set a "New Canadian record high" of 49.6°C.

Abbotsford: Reached 42.9°C.

Kamloops: Reached 47.9°C.

911 Calls: "Nearly 12,000 911 calls are made in the province, a new daily record."

Ambulance Service: "B.C. Emergency Health Services adds 14 dispatchers and opens up central Emergency Operations Centre."

Sector 1: Human Health and Health Systems

The Human Cost:

"The BC Coroners Service linked 619 deaths directly to heat exposure."

"Analysis shows that 98 per cent of deaths and hospital visits during the heat wave were due to extreme temperature exposure inside buildings."

"Most deaths in long-term care facilities happened in the Fraser region."

The Economic Cost of Life:
"We estimate that avoiding these deaths has an economic value of $5.5 billion dollars when based on the Value of a Statistical Life (VSL)." Additionally, "healthcare costs attributed to the heat wave amounted to $12 million."

Health System Failures:

Emergency Rooms: "There were 530 excess hospitalizations across the province during the week of the heat wave."

Delays: "In many cases ambulances waited hours with deceased patients for a coroner to come."

Equipment Failure: "Chillers for MRI and CT equipment were not able to provide sufficient cooling. At one point, both CT scanners at Lions Gate Hospital in North Vancouver and the CT scanner at Whistler Hospital were inoperable as a result."

Internal Temperatures: "At least two Lower Mainland and one Northern hospital recorded indoor temperatures of over 32° C in the emergency department, while an acute care floor at Lions Gate Hospital got as hot as 38° C."

Future Projections (Without Adaptation):
"Our modelling suggests that without action on adaptation there could be an average of 1,370 heat-related deaths per year by 2030."

Sector 2: Workplace Safety and Productivity

Injuries and Claims:

"Heat-related workplace injuries requiring compensation increased by 180 per cent during the heat wave when compared to the previous three-year average."

"Over a third of the heat stress claims in 2021 were from workers who primarily worked indoors (e.g., restaurant kitchens, warehouses)."

Economic Impact:

"Workers lost between $205 million and $328 million in income (based on an estimated 40 to 60 per cent reduction in hours worked during a four-day period)."

"Ten out of twelve public school districts in the Lower Mainland closed on June 28."

Future Projections:
"By mid-century, we estimate that productivity impacts associated with reduced labour supply could range from one to nearly 5 per cent losses in projected GDP across the high-risk sectors modelled, totalling $122 million in GDP losses per year."

Sector 3: Electricity and Transportation Systems

Electricity Grid Stress:

"BC Hydro set 19 all-time summer daily peak electricity demand records."

"Over 400 transformers failed due to the high power load."

"A power transmission cable that travels between mainland B.C. and Vancouver Island was damaged from heat exposure."

Transportation Disruptions:

Aviation: "BC Ambulance Service helicopters were unable to land at main hospitals across the Lower Mainland... because the hot air was too thin for them to safely hover and land."

Roads: "Busy roads developed deep ruts when extreme heat softened the asphalt, and bridges suffered joint damage due to thermal expansion."

Future Costs:
"We estimate that under a medium-warming scenario wear and tear due to heat and precipitation changes will cost B.C. electricity utilities $120 million annually." Additionally, road wear and tear "will cost the provincial and municipal governments an estimated additional $175 million per year by 2030."

Sector 4: Food Systems

Agricultural Losses:

Poultry: "About 661,000 poultry died... which represents more than $5 million in revenue losses."

Dairy: "Half a million litres of milk were discarded because it was impossible to maintain it at cool temperatures."

Fruit: "Cherry sales were down by nearly $15 million—a 19 per cent decline."

Shellfish: "Up to 70 per cent of farmed shellfish died in some areas." "One million wild mussels died in a 100-metre stretch of shoreline in the Salish Sea alone."

Indigenous Food Sovereignty:
"The heat wave... likely contributing to food insecurity for Indigenous communities who rely on traditional food for their sustenance." For example, "Every family has their own favourite [huckleberry] picking spots... In 2021 we went to three locations before we were able to find berries in good enough condition to harvest."

Institutional and Policy Gaps

The report identifies specific failures in governance and preparation:

Warning Systems: "Many decision makers... did not receive or act on information about forthcoming health risks until the heat wave had already arrived."

Response Plans: "Important tools that are part of the province’s Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan... were not used at all or were only triggered on the final days of the disaster."

Coordination: "No single organization took charge of the response."

Code Orange: "Numerous physicians requested activation [of Code Orange] in hospitals across the Lower Mainland, but the status was not approved by administrators for most hospitals."

Findings and Recommendations

The report concludes with six major recommendations for the Government of B.C. and other authorities:

Value of Life: "Explicitly account for the human as well as financial costs of heat-related illness and death in policy cost-benefit analyses."

Cooling & Greening: "Urgently prioritize the targeted deployment of tools such as mechanical cooling and urban greening to help maintain safe indoor temperatures and protect lives."

Evidence: "Increasing mechanical cooling returns between $6.90 and $4.60 for every dollar invested."

Critical Infrastructure: "Build heat-related risk into critical infrastructure decision making and account for compounding hazards."

Workforce Protection: "Provide businesses and employers with the tools and information they need to protect themselves and their employees from extreme heat."

Disaster Response: "Address disaster response gaps and increase capacity to minimize impacts to people and the economy."

Action: "Deliver accurate public heat warnings three days in advance."

Review & Accountability: "The modernized Emergency Program Act should include requirements for independent and public reviews of disaster response and planning after major disasters."

---

2-Medical News & Perspectives | CLIMATE CHANGE AND HEALTH
As Extreme Heat Becomes More Common,
the Unprecedented Pacific Northwest Heat Dome Offers Lessons
Jennifer Abbasi
I n early summer of 2021, in the middle of
the COVID-19 pandemic, another public
health emergency was unfolding in
the Pacific Northwest region of Canada
and the US. The extreme heat event came to
be known as a heat dome as an area of high
pressure trapped
warm air beneath
it for days on end.
Daytime tempera-
tures climbed to
well over 100 °F,
with little overnight relief. June 29 reached
121 °F, or 49 °C, in Lytton, a small town in
British Columbia, becoming the hottest day
on record in Canada.
Estimates have put the number of
heat wave–related deaths that occurred in
Canada’s provinces of British Columbia and
Alberta and the US states of Oregon and
Washington at nearly 900. Most of the de-
ceased were older adults who lived alone and
died at home.
More than 600 of the deaths occurred
in British Columbia. But the cities of Seattle,
Washington, and Portland, Oregon, weren’t
spared. Together, they saw nearly 200 heat-
related deaths. There, the heat dome lasted
from June 25 to June 30. Temperatures
reached 116 °F (46.6 °C) in Portland—more
than 40 °F (22.2 °C) higher than normal.
Researchers have since classified the
2021 event as one of a handful of the most
extreme heat waves on modern record. But
it wasn’t an anomaly. A recent study in
Nature found that the summer of 2023 was
the hottest in the Northern Hemisphere’s
nontropical regions in the past 2000 years.
And this August, researchers reported in
JAMA that heat-related deaths in the US have
been steadily increasing since 2016.
To reflect on the Pacific Northwest heat
dome 3 years later, JAMA Medical News re-
cently spoke with Jeremy Hess, MD, MPH,
an emergency medicine physician and pro-
fessor in the schools of medicine and public
health at the University of Washington and
director of the UW Center for Health and the
Global Environment, and Andrew Phelps,
who was director of the Oregon Depart-
ment of Emergency Management at the time
of the event. Phelps is a member of the US
Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) National Advisory Council and is now
chief operating officer at Colorado-based
AC Disaster Consulting. The two discussed
lessons learned that can be applied as ex-
treme heat and its health outcomes be-
come more common.
The following interview has been ed-
ited for clarity and length.
JAMA: I’d like to start by setting the scene
for what happened in 2021.
MR PHELPS: For context, we were well into
year 2 of our COVID response and all the
challenges that that presented. We had had
in Oregon one of the most devastating
wildfire seasons we had ever had. And in
February of 2021 we had a historic ice storm
that impacted a lot of Portland. So from an
emergency management standpoint, we
had been operational for really 16, 17 months
straight heading into June of 2021. As we got
toward the middle of June, we started see-
ing our weather apps on our phones saying
within a week the temperatures would be
112 °F, 115 °F. About 5 or 6 days before the
heat hit, the National Weather Service in
Portland started issuing extreme heat advi-
sories and validating the forecast.
So it was a very well forecast event. We
knew we were going to be seeing record-
setting temperatures for multiple days, but
these temperatures were so much higher
than anything we’d ever experienced in the
Portland Metro that we didn’t necessarily
know how infrastructure was going to with-
stand the shocks of these temperatures.
With record-setting temperatures, we would
expect record-setting energy usage for air
conditioners. Although, I will say too that
Portland has one of the lowest per capita air
conditioning rates in the country. So many
folks that live in the Portland Metro don’t
have it because historically folks haven’t
needed it.
Multimedia
Medical News website
An administrative coordinator with a street outreach team in Portland, Oregon, tries to cool off while
loading supplies in the summer of 2021.
Nathan Howard/AP Images
News & Analysis
jama.com (Reprinted) JAMA October 1, 2024 Volume 332, Number 13 1035
© 2024 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Ottawa user on 02/09/2026
JAMA: What happened in Seattle?
DR HESS: We got reliable forecasts about 5
days before the event, and they really were
for unprecedentedly high temperatures both
during the day and at night. There was ac-
tually a reasonable amount of disbelief here
and dismissiveness of the forecasts be-
cause they just were so far outside of our his-
torical experience—temperatures that were
going to be about 40 °F above our usual sea-
sonal averages. There was a bit of disbelief
on the part of the general population that it
could be that hot in Seattle for a sustained
period of time.
This level of extreme heat is not a haz-
ard that we’re familiar with here. And so
there was a lot of concern both about utili-
ties and infrastructure as Andrew men-
tioned, but also for the human health im-
pacts. There was an effort to quickly put
together a number of health protections for
communities that we know from prior ex-
perience here, but elsewhere mostly, are par-
ticularly vulnerable.
Within our health facilities, we had
warnings go out to staff members commu-
nicating the forecast, letting people know
about our heat health–risk protocols, mobi-
lization of the required supplies and other
things in our EDs [emergency depart-
ments]. And then there were a number of
different efforts on the part of public health—
Seattle, King County, and other city and
county health departments and the state
department of health—to mobilize protec-
tions like cooling centers and make sure that
people could get relatively easy access
through free bus rides and other things.
As Andrew mentioned, all of this was
complicated by COVID considerations. I think
we were actually in the middle of a bit of a
surge. And so there were tensions there
about how you improve access to cooled
spaces and make sure that you protect
people against the next round of COVID.
MR PHELPS: I think we had around 200 or
220 cooling centers established across the
state. And a lot of engagement with the me-
dia to get the word out. But again, some-
thing that’s so far out of the norm was cer-
tainly met with a healthy dose of skepticism.
And you can’t underemphasize the impor-
tance of being in the midst of COVID. For 14,
15 months, we had been telling people to
avoid congregating together and being in
crowds and then suddenly the message for
something like this is “If you don’t have
air conditioning, if you have underlying
medical conditions, get yourself to a cool-
ing center and congregate.” Masking proto-
cols were in place here in Oregon state-
wide, but it was perhaps a contradictory
message for some folks.
JAMA: What did you end up seeing at those
cooling centers? What was the public’s up-
take of those resources?
MR PHELPS: In the Portland Metro and
throughout Oregon they were being used,
and that was something that made me feel
optimistic about the messaging that we had
been doing. So as we learned later what the
impacts were of this event and the number
of fatalities, that was one of the things that
I really struggled with and I think the emer-
gency management community in Oregon
really struggled with. When you had re-
sources available and tried to make them as
accessible to multiple communities through-
out the Portland Metro as possible, why did
some folks not have the access that we
thought they would to these cooling cen-
ters to be able to take advantage and find a
way to cool off? They were very well publi-
cized, we thought. And that was what made
it so much more difficult to understand
where we had failed to ensure that every-
body that needed access could access them
and was willing to access them.
JAMA: What was the Seattle experience?
DR HESS: The Seattle experience was one
of searing heat, and it worsened steadily
over 3 days. June 28 was the worst and the
day that we saw the most impacts [in the
ED]. Despite our best efforts, there were
pretty significant health impacts. They
impacted the communities that we know
are vulnerable to extreme heat. This
includes people at the extremes of the age
spectrum, particularly elders who have
more underlying chronic conditions. People
who are impoverished and may not have
the means to avail themselves of protective
measures like fans or certainly air condi-
tioning. People who have substance use
disorder and maybe didn’t get the mes-
sages. People who don’t speak English as a
first language and don’t get some of the
preventive messages. And people who are
isolated for any number of reasons and
didn’t have people checking on them or
maybe not frequently enough.
And so we saw a number of emergency
department visits during the heat dome as-
sociated with heat-related illnesses—heat
exhaustion, heat stroke, exacerbations of
chronic diseases that were caused by stress-
ful exposure to the heat, and drowning.
People were flocking to the water because
it’s cooler there, and in some cases, we had
drowning as a result. So we definitely saw a
spike in all of these different injuries and ill-
nesses, and it correlated directly with the
temperature.
I worked the night of the 28th at
Harborview, which is our level 1 trauma cen-
ter and serves as a regional coordinating
center for disasters. One thing I was struck
by was that we had patients who had con-
tact burns from hot pavement, which hasn’t
historically been a frequently seen injury
from extreme heat events. We’re a burn cen-
ter, and so we had a number of those pa-
tients in the ED. We also provide online medi-
cal control for prehospital care providers at
Harborview. That phone was off the hook.
We were getting lots and lots and lots of calls
from the providers in the field treating pa-
tients with heat stroke. A number of those
patients never arrived in the ED. They didn’t
make it to us.
We were stressed, but we’re also a
pretty well-resourced county hospital that
is staffed to surge, so we were okay. But
one of our other facilities in UW Medicine
Valley Medical Center was in crisis. Over the
course of the evening, they received so
many patients with heat stroke who were
intubated, and there are a number of fac-
tors that drove that local outbreak of
heat stroke.
Luckily the heat broke the next day and
pretty quickly thereafter, we saw a reduc-
tion in heat-related illnesses and injuries. But
a few days later working at another one of
our facilities, I saw patients who had other
nonfatal complications related to the heat.
I saw new onset of severe kidney disease,
kidney failure requiring dialysis, and other
events that were striking several days after
the event—people who had thought they
were adequately protected and then had se-
quelae of the heat exposure.
JAMA: Andrew, one of the things you
mentioned at a FEMA-sponsored extreme
heat summit that was held in Chicago this
year was that the emergency departments
did not seem inundated in Portland and
that it was later that the excess deaths told
the story of what was happening in peo-
ple’s homes.
News & Analysis
1036 JAMA October 1, 2024 Volume 332, Number 13 (Reprinted) jama.com
© 2024 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Ottawa user on 02/09/2026
MR PHELPS: From the statewide view of
emergency management, one of the things
we look at is whether hospitals go on divert
and what their status is. And we certainly
weren’t receiving those types of reports.
Frankly, as we came out of the heat event
and the heat broke, we breathed a bit of a
sigh of relief thinking, okay, “We didn’t have
those utility outages. We didn’t have hospi-
tals having to divert patients due to an over-
whelming number of people seeking medi-
cal treatment. We didn’t have Interstate 5
buckle due to the heat.” It wasn’t until 2 or 3
days later that we learned through the state
medical examiner that they were investigat-
ing north of 100 heat-related fatalities. And
that was just such a shock to the system to
hear. It was one of the more sad moments
of my career to understand that we came up
short with trying to protect Oregonians dur-
ing this record-setting event.
JAMA: So what happened? Why were
there these unaccompanied deaths in peo-
ple’s homes?
MR PHELPS: We immediately sought to un-
derstand the why, and a lot of that was un-
derstanding who died. And what we found
was that the overwhelming majority of heat-
related fatalities during this event were
White males, most of them living either in
multifamily housing, apartments, single-
room occupancy–type homes, or manufac-
tured housing, mobile homes, etc. They were
mostly between the ages of 60 and 80 and
male. And when you think about folks that
maybe don’t always seek help or medical at-
tention when they’re not feeling well, that’s
the demographic.
It caused us to really think about how
we message for events like this. It is a fine line
when you’re doing public communications
during an emergency of elevating the mes-
sage enough so that folks know they need
to take it seriously, but not trying to use scare
tactics to get folks to take action. So a lot of
our messaging pre-event and during the
event was: “This is abnormally hot. We’ve
never seen temperatures like this. We have
cooling centers set up. Please check on your
neighbors and your family.” And I think based
on conversations we had with victim’s rela-
tives, with emergency managers, with the
communities, that “check on your neigh-
bors” wasn’t the right message.
We had heard, anecdotally, folks say-
ing, “I called my uncle at 11 in the morning and
he was fine. By 10 at night, he was dead.”
I think 15% of the fatalities were in homes
that had air conditioning. But these were
people oftentimes on fixed income who
were afraid they couldn’t afford the extra
utility bill, so they never turned their air con-
ditioning on. And that was devastating as
well, that there were solutions available to
help these folks, that these deaths were pre-
ventable. And that through a combination of
missing the mark on messaging, the inabil-
ity or the unwillingness or the fear of folks
having to pay extra utility bills to turn on the
air conditioning, and for multiple reasons not
being able to get to or take advantage of the
cooling centers, we had these fatalities.
During the rest of 2021 and into 2022,
we had a number of other excessive heat
events, not nearly the 116°F-days that we had
in Portland earlier in the year, but 104 °F,
105 °F, pretty hot temperatures for the
Pacific Northwest and Portland in particu-
lar. And so we shifted our message to be
much more stark. Not “check on your neigh-
bor.” It was “go and put eyes on your neigh-
bor, on your family members, on your co-
workers. If they do not have a way to stay
cool, if they don’t have air conditioning, get
them someplace where they can cool off for
a little bit. This level of heat will kill you if you
don’t find a way to cool off and stay cool.” We
worked with public transportation in and
around the Portland Metro to offer not only
free rides to the cooling centers, but also
making recommendations like if you’ve got
a bus to set up on a street corner or if you al-
low folks to just ride a bus and cool off in the
air conditioning in the bus, that’s a way for
folks to avoid these types of temperatures.
So there were some of those short-
term immediate impacts that we were able
to leverage and implement. But this is not a
short-term problem. And this is certainly
not an anomaly or an outlier. In my mind,
it’s an indicator of things to come. So we
need to take the same approach to exces-
sive heat that we take to other hazards and
threats like wildfire or hurricanes or earth-
quakes. Disasters ultimately are policy
issues. The decisions that are made by poli-
cymakers often related to how we build
and where we build, and we need to make
substantive changes in how we build and
where we build to address this persistent
and increasing threat of excessive heat and
high temperatures.
JAMA: Jeremy, do you have anything to
add in terms of the deaths that occurred in
Seattle? What were the patterns that you
saw there?
DR HESS: Overall, we also saw that there
was a disproportionate number of people
who were older among the folks who died.
In our case, there wasn’t as much of a gen-
der disparity, I don’t believe. There was a
higher-than-expected risk for people who
were Black and for Native Americans and
Pacific Islanders.
But all the things that Andrew men-
tioned are very familiar from other heat epi-
demiology work. And listening to him talk
about it, I can tell this is painful. It was pain-
ful for us too, because we knew that these
are preventable injuries, illnesses, and
deaths, and yet it’s very difficult to, on a very
quick basis, deploy all of the protections that
you need. I really struggled with this event
because I do have expertise in this space.
This is the kind of thing that really I felt like
I should have helped my community pre-
vent more effectively than I did. And I’ve
struggled with that since the event.
JAMA: It’s striking to hear you both say that.
DR HESS: But I also recognize as I’ve re-
flected on it that…we used to refer to the
health effects of heat as entirely prevent-
able. I don’t think we generally do that
anymore. And I think that’s appropriate be-
cause it’s actually very difficult to fully pro-
tect the population against extreme heat,
which is not to say that we should expect any
certain level of mortality associated with
these events, but that we should, as Andrew
said, really respect how hazardous these
events are and how complicated it can be to
protect people who are vulnerable and sus-
ceptible for any number of different rea-
sons. And it certainly has to do with how we
build and how we manage our built environ-
ments and how we manage things like util-
ity subsidies and how we support outreach
and all sorts of other things.
But we also live in a community that,
at least here prior to this event, had very little
protective reflex around heat. We had never
experienced anything like this before. I’ve
lived in very hot places and when warnings
go out, people know what to do. There’s cer-
tainly a trend in preventive messaging re-
lated to disasters to do exactly what Andrew
outlined—be very explicit about what to do
and what the risks are. And we certainly need
to do that in our messaging here. But also,
we were dealing with a very short time-
frame to mobilize a massive protective
News & Analysis
jama.com (Reprinted) JAMA October 1, 2024 Volume 332, Number 13 1037
© 2024 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Ottawa user on 02/09/2026
response within a community that had never
experienced that kind of hazard before. So
I think we also have to be a little gentle with
ourselves recognizing that that was a very
difficult context within which to operate.
The other thing that I’ll say is the Pacific
Northwest heat dome of 2021 affected all
these different communities in the Pacific
Northwest in different ways. This event was
one big regional disaster, but it was also a
bunch of different, more local disasters. Here
in Seattle, it’s much cooler than it is in east-
ern Washington. Even though the tempera-
tures they experienced were also clearly well
above normal, they have better protective
resources and reflexes than we do over here
in the Puget Sound because we just never
have experienced anything like this before.
We also had a relatively short event, whereas
some other parts of the Pacific Northwest
suffered under heat for considerably lon-
ger, and then some had compound disas-
ters. Up in BC [British Columbia], their heat
exposure was much longer and they also had
wildfire exposure during the event. And that
created a completely different set of haz-
ards and in some ways a more impactful di-
saster for them. [Editor’s Note: The town of
Lytton was destroyed by a wildfire the day
after Canada’s temperature record was bro-
ken there.]
That too is an important thing to rec-
ognize. It’s important to recognize the local-
ity of every disaster and this specificity of
context but also that as these events be-
come more common, as we get closer and
closer to the thresholds of what we’re able
to deal with relatively quickly, we have an in-
creased risk of significant compound ef-
fects from cascading hazards.
Here in Seattle, we’ve taken to heart a
lot of lessons from this event. The 28th was
the busiest day for Seattle King County
Medic One in its history, until December
2022 when we had another weather-
related disaster related to an ice storm. So
the highest demand that we’ve put on our
prehospital care here has been related to
weather-related disasters. And so I think
there’s an enhanced understanding these are
really significant events potentially for us.
We’ve started to create planning scenarios
informed by climate science and projec-
tions of climate change for the region, rec-
ognizing that compound hazards are in fact
fairly likely at this point, and that the sce-
narios may on their faces seem almost out-
landish, but they’re now actually a poten-
tial reality and that we need to at least drill
for the possibility of cascading failures and
the health impacts that may result.
JAMA: Andrew, could you share what les-
sons you learned and could be taken away
by other regions that may not be accus-
tomed to this type of heat?
MR PHELPS: There’s quite a few things that
have emerged for me, especially as an emer-
gency manager. The importance of messag-
ing, as I stated, is critically important. Being
clear and direct about how dangerous these
events are. The Pacific Northwest in many
ways is an early adopter, as it were, of
climate-driven hazards, whether it’s wild-
fire or excessive heat or flooding in areas that
wouldn’t historically flood. And we’re see-
ing these types of hazards migrate east
across the country. We’re seeing more wild-
fires and more excessive heat in places like
the Midwest and the East Coast. So as my
colleagues across the country plan for what
I think is in many ways an inevitability, un-
derstanding the messaging, understanding
the demographics of your community, un-
derstanding that one message may not reso-
nate with the entire community so differ-
ent messages that are geared toward the
demographics, the cultural specificity of your
community, is really important.
Some of those stopgap measures like
what we’ve done in Oregon with our air
conditioning program: if you qualify for cer-
tain medical assistance, you can receive a
free air conditioner and then there’s also
offsets for utility bills for folks in need.
Worker safety is huge. We’ve got a tremen-
dous agricultural industry in Oregon and
the Pacific Northwest. So an intentional
approach to ensuring that those folks that
are out working, whether it’s in the fields or
the orchards or the vineyards, that they
have protections in place. That they’re not
made to work when it’s a 100 °F, 105 °F,
110 °F outside without breaks, without cold
water, without some level of protection
from those heat events. That goes a long
way as well.
But when we look further off to the
horizon, thinking about things that we can
do to make the built environment better
able to withstand the shocks and stressors,
there are a number of studies that show the
cooling effects of green space. The city of
Portland after the heat event in 2021 suc-
cessfully requested and received funding
for the planting of, I think, 10 000 trees in
mapped heat islands. These are areas that
have a higher ability to retain heat due
to concrete and the built environment.
Through this FEMA grant and the Building
Resilient Infrastructure and Communities
program, they’re now able to reduce the
impacts of these heat islands and make
those areas a little bit cooler. These heat
islands oftentimes translated exactly to
where those folks lost their lives in the 2021
heat dome event.
So for emergency managers to under-
stand again that this is not just about high
temperatures, but our built environment
and how we build and where we build, that
goes a long way toward reducing the
impact and mitigating against the effects of
what is going to become, in my mind, more
frequent excessive temperature events.
This is the trend we’ve seen for the last 80
years. The highest years on record since
1850 have been within the last 9 or 10
years. This is not a problem that’s going to
abate anytime soon.
DR HESS: I completely agree that we need
to be more mindful and attentive to how the
built environment amplifies risk in some
places. Planting trees is really important, and
there’s huge historical inequity in green
space and blue space access that we need to
rectify as quickly as possible. But some of
those interventions are going to take 20, 30
years to mature. And we also have to recog-
nize that most tree planting will occur on pri-
vately owned land and will require the own-
ers to maintain those trees. There’s a high
mortality rate for a lot of those efforts. It’s a
complicated intervention. Trees are a won-
derful infrastructure, but they’re actually ex-
pensive infrastructure to maintain and de-
velop. And it worries me sometimes that
there’s so much attention and investment
going into that kind of infrastructure and not
recognizing that right now we need to de-
ploy heat pumps. We need to deploy subsi-
dies for power bills. And we need to deploy
cooling centers and buddy programs and
other proven strategies for protecting highly
vulnerable people right now for the next
event because those other preventive mea-
sures are going to take a long time to reach
their full mature protective effects.
JAMA: What’s a heat pump?
DR HESS: A heat pump is a mechanical air
conditioning that is much more efficient and
so uses less energy. It provides the same
amount of cooling but reduces the load on
News & Analysis
1038 JAMA October 1, 2024 Volume 332, Number 13 (Reprinted) jama.com
© 2024 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Ottawa user on 02/09/2026
the grid and reduces the greenhouse gas
emissions that come from electricity if it’s not
produced through renewable sources.
JAMA: Energy subsidies have been men-
tioned by both of you several times, and it’s
something that seems to be coming up more
and more in our reporting. How important do
you think energy subsidies are going to be go-
ing forward to protect people from heat?
DR HESS: I think it’s one of several effec-
tive strategies. Unfortunately, there’s been
pretty systematic underinvestment in inves-
tigations around interventions to reduce
health risks from heat. We’re slowly getting
more information about modifications in the
built environment and what their treat-
ment effects are. And so eventually, we’ll be
able to answer that question with more pre-
cision. But right now, I think it’s a basket of
interventions that you need to invest in. And
energy subsidies certainly don’t seem to be
harmful, and they do seem to be protec-
tive. But how protective they are relative to
some of the other interventions that we
could pursue, I’m not sure.
MR PHELPS: Iwouldechothat.It’sonepiece,
one mechanism to help reduce some of the
impacts,notjustinthesummerforcoolingand
toavoidheat-relatedinjuryanddeath,butalso
in the wintertime when you have folks that
can’t warm their homes. But again, it’s not
a total solution to this problem.
DR HESS: There are a number of different in-
terventions that actually can reduce risk for
a bunch of different climate-sensitive haz-
ards. So some kind of mechanical cooling if
coupled with the appropriate air filtration,
can protect you against extreme heat, ex-
treme cold, and particulate air pollution dur-
ing wildfire events. It’s a useful interven-
tion for a number of the problems that we
are seeing. You want to make sure that you
are deploying it thoughtfully and that you’re
not adding to the problem by increasing
greenhouse gas emissions. And you also
want to make sure that you do it in a way
that doesn’t overwhelm your grid, so you
don’t want to create additional problems
through the interventions that you’re pro-
moting.
MR PHELPS: I think my call to action on this
is that we need to find that sense of com-
munity again. The thought of someone los-
ing their life in a heat event by themselves
in an apartment or in a mobile home that was
125 °F, 130 °F, 140 °F inside is devastating.
There’s no reason in a city like Portland, in a
metro area like Portland, in a place like the
Pacific Northwest, that someone should be
alone and suffering without a neighbor or
someone being able to come and check on
them. The notion that we have to try to take
care of each other a little bit during these
types of events is one of the things that
I keep coming back to when I reflect on the
2021 heat dome. We have to take care of
each other. That’s the bottom line for me.
DR HESS: I absolutely agree, and I have
one other thought that I want to make
sure that I insert. The problem was that we
didn’t really apply all of the knowledge we
have about what makes communities vul-
nerable and to some degree individual
people vulnerable in those communities.
What creates pockets of vulnerability
hotspots, if you will. And we didn’t and
haven’t invested adequately in infrastruc-
ture to support surges wherever they may
take place. Our challenges as a health sys-
tem during this event were mostly related
to concentrations of vulnerability and ill-
ness and then capacity. And this is particu-
larly important when you start to think
about cascading hazards that can quickly
overwhelm your capacity, particularly if you
operate, like many of our facilities do, near
full capacity and occasionally over full
capacity on a regular basis. Our staff are
highly trained. They knew exactly what to
do, but they bumped up against the limita-
tions of the system.
Author Affiliation: Director, Medical News &
Perspectives, JAMA.
Published Online: September 6, 2024.
doi:10.1001/jama.2024.17788
Correction: This article was corrected on
September 13, 2024, to fix the higher-than-normal
increase in temperature experienced in Portland,
Oregon, during the summer of 2021, from 4 °C to
22.2 °C.
Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Hess reported
receiving honoraria from Columbia University for a
webinar presentation and Harvard University for
a practice guidance review; receiving travel support
from University College London for a grantee
meeting for the Lancet Countdown on Health and
Climate Change and from Wellcome Trust for a
workshop on modeling climate change health
impacts; and being an unpaid board member for
the Seattle Parks Foundation. No other disclosures
were reported.
Note: Source references are available through
embedded hyperlinks in the article text online.
News & Analysis
jama.com (Reprinted) JAMA October 1, 2024 Volume 332, Number 13 1039
© 2024 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Ottawa user on 02/09/2026

---

3-Lessons learnt from the 2021 Pacific
Northwest heat dome: a qualitative
study of western Washington’s
healthcare community response
Matias Korfmacher ,1 Cat Hartwell ,1 Kelly Hill,2 Nathaniel Matthews-Trigg,1,2
Jeremy Hess ,1,3,4 Amruta Nori-Sarma ,5,6 Gregory Wellenius ,5
Nicole Errett 1
To cite: Korfmacher M,
Hartwell C, Hill K, et al. Lessons
learnt from the 2021 Pacific
Northwest heat dome: a
qualitative study of western
Washington’s healthcare
community response. BMJ Open
2025;15:e089093. doi:10.1136/
bmjopen-2024-089093
► Prepublication history
and additional supplemental
material for this paper are
available online. To view these
files, please visit the journal
online (https://doi.org/10.1136/
bmjopen-2024-089093).
Received 25 May 2024
Accepted 07 March 2025
For numbered affiliations see
end of article.
Correspondence to
Dr Nicole Errett; nerrett@ uw.edu
Original research
© Author(s) (or their
employer(s)) 2025. Re-use
permitted under CC BY.
Published by BMJ Group.
ABSTRACT
Objective The 2021 Pacific Northwest heat dome was
Washington state’s deadliest recorded weather event and
presented unprecedented response challenges to the
state’s health sector. Understanding the impacts of this
extreme heat event (EHE) on the sector as well as the
barriers to and facilitators of implementing effective heat
response is critical to preparing for future events, which
are happening more frequently in the region due to climate
change.
Design Guided by an implementation science framework,
we convened listening sessions and focus groups of the
health sector in western Washington to reflect on regional
response efforts.
Setting Health sector organisations in 15 counties in
western Washington State, USA: Clallam, Grays Harbor,
Island, Jefferson, King, Kitsap, Lewis, Mason, Pacific,
Pierce, San Juan, Skagit, Snohomish, Thurston and
Whatcom.
Participants A convenience sample of 109 listening
group participants was recruited through the professional
networks of the Northwest Healthcare Response Network,
a regional healthcare coalition. 27 of the health sector
professionals were recruited using purposive sampling
to participate in seven focus groups organised by
organisation type.
Results The co-presence of the COVID-19 pandemic,
limited staff capacity, resource acquisition challenges
and inadequate regional collaboration emerged as
key barriers, while advanced planning, indoor cooling
capabilities, adapting strategies to local needs, robust
internal relationships and strong external partnerships
were reported to facilitate effective response. Establishing
centralised coordination ahead of heat events, making
improvements to the cooling capabilities of the built
environment, developing plans and policies for EHEs that
have co-benefits for other events, adopting evidence-
informed response strategies, institutionalising the
knowledge and relationships developed through prior
events and improving evaluative processes (such as
developing real-time monitoring capacity) will enable more
effective response to future EHEs.
Conclusions Western Washington’s health sector
implemented EHE response activities that enabled
essential service continuity, despite limited resources,
unfamiliarity with EHEs and other systemic challenges.
The recency of the heat dome presents an opportunity to
incorporate lessons learnt into practice, policies, plans
and built environment; these are necessary improvements
ahead of future large-scale events the region may
experience in the coming decades

---

4- Description of the built environment associated with fatal heat-related injuries during the 2021 western North American extreme heat event Chinowsky, Emily E.
Abstract

British Columbia (BC) experienced 619 heat-related deaths during the 2021 heat dome, according to the BC Coroners Service (BCCS). Many of those deaths were among highly susceptible people, with poverty, schizophrenia, and other chronic conditions being significant risk factors for death in epidemiologic analyses. Many of the fatal heat-related injuries were recorded in specific building types, including mobile homes and high-rise multi-unit residential buildings (MURBs). Understanding these built environment characteristics where injuries and deaths occurred could assist in planning for future extreme heat events and implementing measures to mitigate potential injuries. However, developing this understanding has previously required physical access to individual sites to document their specific attributes, which is resource-intensive and prohibitive for large-scale studies. This study demonstrates the potential to leverage publicly available imagery to reduce the effort required to gather built environment characteristics. By combining street addresses of known fatal heat-related injuries with satellite and street view data from Google Maps and Earth, the study collected data for each site where an injury occurred. Analysis of the information found disproportionate representation of specific building types, absence of greenery and mature trees, and built environment density patterns in multiple settings. The study results indicate that characteristics such as building orientation, amount of glass surface area, and the condition of structures could all factor into risk to susceptible people during extreme heat events. Furthermore, two distinct building typologies were among these injury locations: high-rise MURBs with high window-to-façade surface area ratio and older, shorter buildings with few windows. The study demonstrated the value of publicly available visual data, and methods could be applied to other disasters such as wildfires and floods. 

---

O R I G I N A L A R T I C L E
D i s a s t e r a n d Te r r o r i s m
5-Impacts of the 2021 heat dome on emergency department
visits, hospitalizations, and health system operations in three
hospitals in Seattle, Washington
Zachary S. Wettstein MD, MS1,2 Steven H. Mitchell MD1,3 Jane Hall PhD1 Jeremy J. Hess MD, MPH1,2
Cameron Buck MD1
1 Department of Emergency Medicine,
University of Washington School of Medicine,
Seattle, Washington, USA
2 Center for Health and the Global
Environment, University of Washington School
of Public Health, Seattle, Washington, USA
3 Washington Medical Coordination Center,
Seattle, Washington, USA
Correspondence
Zachary S. Wettstein, MD, MS, Department of
Emergency Medicine, University of
Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA,
USA.
Email: zwett@uw.edu
Abstract
Objectives: Extreme heat events (EHEs) are associated with excess healthcare utiliza-
tion but specific impacts on emergency department (ED) operations and throughput
are unknown. In 2021, the Pacific Northwest experienced an unprecedented heat
dome that resulted in substantial regional morbidity and mortality. The aim of this
study was to examine its impact on ED utilization, unplanned hospitalization, and
hospital operations in a large academic healthcare system.
Methods: Retrospective electronic medical records from three Seattle-area hospitals
were used to compare healthcare utilization during the EHE compared to a pre-event
reference period within the same month. Interrupted time series analysis was used
to evaluate the association between EHE exposure and ED visits and hospitalizations.
Metrics of ED crowding for the EHE were compared to the reference period using Stu-
dent’s t-tests and chi-squared tests. Additionally, multivariable Poisson regression was
used to identify risk factors for heat-related illness and hospital admission.
Results: Interrupted time series analysis showed an increase of 21.7 ED visits per day
(95% confidence interval [CI]=14.7, 28.6) and 9.9 unplanned hospitalizations per day
(95% CI=8.3, 11.5) during the EHE, as compared to the reference period. ED crowding
and process measures also displayed significant increases, becoming the most pro-
nounced by day 3 of the EHE; the EHE was associated with delays in ED length of stay
of 1.0 h (95% CI=0.4, 1.6) compared to the reference period. Higher incidence rate
ratios for heat-related illness were observed for patients who were older (incidence
rate ratio [IRR]=1.02; 95% CI=1.01,1.03), female (IRR=1.47; 95% CI=1.06, 2.04),
or who had pre-existing diabetes (IRR=3.19; 95% CI=1.47, 6.94).
Conclusions: The 2021 heat dome was associated with a significant increase in health-
care utilization including ED visits and unplanned hospitalizations. Substantial impacts
on ED and hospital throughput were also noted. These findings contribute to the
This is an open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs License, which permits use and distribution in any
medium, provided the original work is properly cited, the use is non-commercial and no modifications or adaptations are made.
© 2024 The Authors. JACEP Open published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American College of Emergency Physicians.
JACEP Open 2024;5:e13098. https://doi.org/10.1002/emp2.13098
wileyonlinelibrary.com/journal/emp2 1 of 10
2 of 10 WETTSTEIN ET AL.
understanding of the role extreme heat events play on impacting patient outcomes and
healthcare system function.
K E Y W O R D S
climate change, disaster, heat, heat wave, operations

---

6-Extreme Heat in the Home: Understanding the 2021 Pacific Northwest Heat Wave through the British Columbia Coroners Report
Rachel N. Stern, Mohammed Rafi Arefin
Journal of Disaster Studies
University of Pennsylvania Press
Volume 1, Issue 1, 2024
pp. 103-118
Article

    View Citation

Additional Information 
Abstract

In 2021, there was an unprecedented heat wave across the Canadian province of British Columbia that led to the deaths of 619 people, almost all of whom died in their homes. This research note focuses on a report from the BC Coroners Service that explores quantitative data on who died during the heat dome and puts forward key recommendations for future events. We argue that this report focuses too heavily on the immediate causes of death and suffering and does not thoroughly address the important structural factors of inequality that underpin how people experience heat in their homes. Drawing on political ecology, we highlight housing injustice and tenancy in British Columbia as key structural components of inequality, and discuss unaffordability and individual contexts that contribute to how people experience heat events differently across scales and geographies. We also discuss debates around recent policies on air conditioning and the Material and Social Deprivation Index. We conclude that while the Coroners Service report has made valuable contributions to statistical knowledge, its conclusions and recommendations do not go far enough to address the underlying structural factors of housing insecurity.

---

7-
Beat the Heat: Community Perspectives Around Extreme Heat in Spokane, WA, Post-2021 Northwest Heat Dome
Authors

Jason J. Lau
Brian G. Henning, Gonzaga University
Follow

Kate Tokareva
Kaitlan Ducken, Gonzaga University
Follow

Faisal S. Malik
Tania Busch Isaksen, University of Washington
Document Type

Article
Publication Title

Journal of Community Medicine & Public Health
Abstract

Extreme heat events are the leading weather-related causes of death in the United States. Despite heat familiarity in eastern Washington, at least 19 heat-related deaths occurred in Spokane County during the 2021 “heat dome” in the Northwest. To assess heat concerns among vulnerable groups and identify cooling access barriers, surveys were conducted with Spokane County residents from July to November 2022. Descriptive statistics and ordinal logistic regression characterized perceptions of heat, access to home cooling, and interest in public cooling for vulnerable populations. A total of 1477 adults completed the survey. Demographics were comparable to the Spokane County US Census: 22.8% were 65+ years old, 83.1% non-Hispanic White, 30.2% had elderly at home, 29.6% had children at home, 40.9% had a disability or chronic illness at home, and 26.8% were renters. Nearly half perceived a mild-to-no threat of heat to personal well-being. Households with disabilities/medical illness, history of seeking medical attention due to heat, no AC, or renters having significantly greater heat concerns. Among those without AC, 66.9% preferred to stay home on very hot days and 44.4% would not consider using a public cooling center. Barriers to using public cooling included accessibility, entertainment, infection risk, and personal safety. Effective communication and intervention strategies should be tailored to the needs and perceptions of at-risk groups. Multimodal approaches are needed to address strong preferences to stay home and obstacles for utilizing public cooling spaces.

---

8-Excess Injury Mortality in Washington
State During the 2021 Heat Wave
Joan A. Casey, PhD, MA, Robbie M. Parks, PhD, MA, Tim A. Bruckner, PhD, MPH, Alison Gemmill, PhD, MA, MPH, and
Ralph Catalano, PhD, MRP
Objectives. To determine whether the 2021 Paci c Northwest heat wave resulted in excess injury (both
unintentional and intentional) deaths.
Methods. With US death certi cate data from December 29, 2013, to July 31, 2021, we generated
weekly counts of injury deaths in Washington State and the rest of the country. We used time-series
methods to identify excess injury deaths that may have occurred during and following the anomalously
warm temperature period based on those expected from history and from simultaneous deaths in the
remainder of the United States.
Results. Beginning the week including June 25, 2021 (heat wave initiation), 3 weeks exceeded the
expected count of injury deaths in Washington State, with an estimated total of 159 excess injury deaths
(95% detection interval5 122, 195) during the 3-week period.
Conclusions. The 2021 Paci c Northwest heat wave was associated with an increase in injury deaths.
Public Health Implications. Under global warming scenarios, heat waves of this magnitude will
become much more common. Adaptation and planning efforts are needed to protect residents of the
historically temperate Paci c Northwest for a range of health outcomes. (Am J Public Health. 2023;113(6):
657–660. https://doi.org/10.2105/AJPH.2023.307269)

---

9-Observed Impacts of Heatwaves

Abstract

This chapter provides an overview of the observed impacts of heatwaves, focusing on human populations, the economy, society, infrastructure, domesticated animals, terrestrial wildlife, and marine environments. For human populations heat-related mortality is a major concern, with heatwaves causing more deaths than any other natural hazard in some countries. Vulnerable groups, such as the elderly and children, are disproportionately affected, with significant increases in mortality rates during heatwave events. The health impacts of heatwaves can be exacerbated by chronic diseases, pregnancy, and behavioural changes. Economically, heatwaves impose substantial costs on infrastructure, labour productivity, and healthcare systems. The agricultural sector is also affected, with heatwaves causing significant reductions in crop yields and livestock productivity. Increased aggression, mental health issues, and changes in social behaviour as social impacts arising from heatwaves are also touched upon. Because infrastructure systems, especially energy and transport, are highly vulnerable to heatwaves, impacts often manifest in the form increased cooling demand during heatwaves leading to grid failures and brownouts and blackouts and damage to rail and road networks via road heave and rail buckling, resulting in delays and increased maintenance costs. Domesticated animals and wildlife are not spared from the impacts of heatwaves. High mortality rates among cattle, poultry, and other farm animals are common during heatwave events. Wildlife, including some iconic species, also suffer significant mortality due to heatwave related heat stress. Marine environments are equally affected, with marine heatwaves causing widespread mortality among some marine species, disrupting food webs, and altering ecosystem structures. The chapter underscores the urgent need for systematic data collection on heatwave impacts to develop effective risk management strategies. It calls for integrated global systems to accurately record heatwave-related deaths and economic losses. The chapter concludes by emphasizing the importance of understanding the full scale of heatwave impacts to inform policy and adaptation and mitigation measures.

---

10-Article https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-36289-3
The unprecedented Paci c Northwest heat-
wave of June 2021
Received: 30 June 2022
Accepted: 24 January 2023
Rachel H. White 1 , Sam Anderson 1, James F. Booth2,3, Ginni Braich4
,
Christina Draeger 1, Cuiyi Fei1, Christopher D. G. Harley 5
,
Sarah B. Henderson 6,7, Matthias Jakob 1,8, Carie-Ann Lau8
,
Lualawi Mareshet Admasu1, Veeshan Narinesingh9, Christopher Rodell1
,
Eliott Roocroft1, Kate R. Weinberger7 & Greg West10
Check for updates
1234567890():,;
1234567890():,;
In late June 2021 a heatwave of unprecedented magnitude impacted the Paci c
Northwest region of Canada and the United States. Many locations broke all-
time maximum temperature records by more than 5 °C, and the Canadian
national temperature record was broken by 4.6 °C, with a new record tem-
perature of 49.6 °C. Here, we provide a comprehensive summary of this event
and its impacts. Upstream diabatic heating played a key role in the magnitude
of this anomaly. Weather forecasts provided advanced notice of the event,
while sub-seasonal forecasts showed an increased likelihood of a heat extreme
with lead times of 10-20 days. The impacts of this event were catastrophic,
including hundreds of attributable deaths across the Paci c Northwest, mass-
mortalities of marine life, reduced crop and fruit yields, river ooding from
rapid snow and glacier melt, and a substantial increase in wild res—the latter
contributing to landslides in the months following. These impacts provide
examples we can learn from and a vivid depiction of how climate change can
be so devastating.

--

11-FUTURE EXTREME HEAT CONSIDERATIONS
FOR EMERGENCY MANAGERS
by
Troy E. Christensen
September 2024

3. ABSTRACT (maximum 200 words)
Extreme heat poses a significant and growing threat to emergency management and homeland security
within the United States, yet many communities remain unprepared for their impacts due to inadequate
planning. This thesis explores the potential future impact of extreme heat on America’s emergency
management community. The study specifically focuses on future extreme heat effects in Phoenix, Chicago,
Seattle, and Atlanta, representing a diverse cross-section of climates in the United States. The study employs
a scenario-based approach for each city to determine the shocks of extreme heat events in future global
temperature increases of +1.5ºC, +2.0ºC, and +2.5ºC above pre-industrial levels. Each scenario focuses on the
expected effects on Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Community Lifelines, representing
vital functions of a community to ensure safety, security, and well-being. The thesis underscores the
importance of planning for extreme heat specifically and the cascading effects of extreme heat on communities
and infrastructure. Recommendations to mitigate the growing challenge of extreme heat events on
communities include creating plans specific to the hazard, preparing for cascading impacts, focusing on heat
awareness and communications, and advocating funding for communities to address extreme heat threats.

